The End
=======

Three decisions and one setup job. The End is a stage, not a place to live: the
dragon comes back once a week, the egg drops every time because it is a crafting
ingredient here, and nobody owns the arena.

None of this ships in the pack except the script. The claim lives in world data,
which the server writes, so server-overrides/ cannot deliver it — it is a
one-time command you run on the live world, like the mine platform's claim.


1. The dimension is never reset
-------------------------------

Resetting End chunks regenerates End Cities, which would turn elytra and
shulkers into a weekly farm, and the pack keeps the End as a stage — the Silent
Gear elytra recipe is banned. It would also wipe player enderman farms, so
nobody would build out there at all.

Only the dragon comes back.


2. Weekly respawn
-----------------

    /dragon respawn

Console only (permission level 4). Put it on a weekly scheduler task; it is the
same shape as the mine's chat warnings — one console line, no lifecycle.

What it does: puts the four end crystals back on the exit portal frame and calls
the vanilla respawn. It is idempotent, so a task that fires while a respawn is
already pending places nothing and changes nothing. Crystals that are already
standing are left alone.

What it refuses to do:

  * nothing happens while a dragon is alive,
  * nothing happens before the first dragon has been killed by a player —
    vanilla only sets up the fight when somebody is actually in the End.

The respawn animation itself only runs while a player is within 192 blocks of
the arena; that is vanilla, not us. So on an empty server the crystals are set
and the animation starts the moment somebody arrives. That is the intended
behaviour: the fight is not spent on an empty island.

The animation rebuilds all ten obsidian pillars and explodes a 21x21x21 box
around each one. Anything built near a pillar is destroyed every week — which is
the other reason nobody should be able to claim the island.

Crystals are consumed by the animation, so nothing accumulates.


3. The egg drops every time
---------------------------

Vanilla drops the dragon egg on the FIRST kill only. Here the egg is a crafting
ingredient, so kubejs/server_scripts/dragon.js places one after every later
kill, in the same spot vanilla uses — on top of the bedrock pillar above the
exit portal.

It waits for the exit portal to come back rather than counting ticks: the portal
blocks reappear in the same call that ends the fight, so that is an exact signal
and it survives the chunk unloading mid-animation. An egg left uncollected is
not replaced in place — the next one stacks on top of it.

Nothing to configure. The first kill is left to vanilla, so there is never a
double egg.


4. The main island cannot be claimed
------------------------------------

Run this once, on the live world, after the End exists:

    /opac server-claims-config sub create arena
    /opac server-claims-config sub set arena playerConfig.claims.protectClaimedChunks false

    /execute in minecraft:the_end positioned -64.0 64.0 -64.0 run oclaims server claim with arena in minecraft:the_end -112 -112 -1 -1
    /execute in minecraft:the_end positioned 48.0 64.0 -64.0 run oclaims server claim with arena in minecraft:the_end 0 -112 111 -1
    /execute in minecraft:the_end positioned -64.0 64.0 48.0 run oclaims server claim with arena in minecraft:the_end -112 0 -1 111
    /execute in minecraft:the_end positioned 48.0 64.0 48.0 run oclaims server claim with arena in minecraft:the_end 0 0 111 111

That claims chunks -7..6 on both axes — blocks -112..111, the whole central
island including the gateway ring at radius 96 — as a Server Claim, so no player
can claim any of it. 196 chunks; server claims have no limit.

Why the sub-config: a plain server claim refuses every interaction to anyone who
is not an operator, which would make the arena unusable — no towers, no hitting
the dragon, no picking up the egg. The "arena" sub-config turns protection off
for these chunks only. The mine platform keeps the main config and stays
protected. Verified with OPAC's own access check: a stranger has access to the
arena chunks and not to the mine platform, both being server claims.

Why four commands: an area claim only reaches maxClaimDistance (5) chunks from
where the command is run, so one command from spawn silently claims 11x11 and
stops. "execute positioned" moves that centre. Do not raise maxClaimDistance to
avoid this — it is the limit players get too.

Repeating any of it is safe; already-claimed chunks answer "already claimed by
Server Claim".

Check with:

    /oclaims about

Claims should go up by 196.


5. What is deliberately not here
--------------------------------

  * End crystals cannot be crafted (recipe banned), so no player summons the
    dragon on their own schedule. The weekly task is the only source.
  * The dragon breaks blocks as an entity, so OPAC protects normal claims from
    it without any help from us.
  * Beds and respawn anchors: vanilla behaviour, unchanged.
