The server shop
===============

The operator's shop block never runs out, has no owner and keeps no chest. The
payment it takes leaves the economy entirely — it is not a shop so much as an
incinerator with a counter. That is the whole point: it is the other end of the
money supply from the minting recipe, and the only thing holding RavenCoin's
value up.

An entry is N of one item for M of another. The price does not have to be coins,
and an entry can be gated on a rank. You configure each block in game by picking
the two items out of your own inventory, so this file is a list of decisions,
not a list of commands.


1. The exchange rate
--------------------

Minting is GGG / DAD / GGG — six gold ingots, two diamonds, one amethyst shard,
for one coin block, which is nine RavenCoin.

Two of those three are effectively unlimited. Gold and diamond come out of a
quarry through Mekanism's five-times ore processing and nobody counts them.

Amethyst is the one that is not, and that was audited rather than assumed:
every recipe, loot table and worldgen file in all ninety-nine mods was read,
looking for anything that outputs amethyst. What came back:

  * the compression mod's crates and compressed blocks — all forty recipes are
    exactly 9:1 and 1:9, so they store amethyst, they do not make it
  * Immersive Engineering's and Railcraft's crushers — one amethyst block into
    four shards, which is what the vanilla crafting grid already does
  * everything else that mentions amethyst takes it as an INPUT: tinted glass,
    EnderIO's fused quartz, the nucleosynthesizer's echo shards, allay
    duplication, and our own minting recipe
  * ONE REAL PRODUCER, now closed. Immersive Engineering's Excavator had an
    "amethyst crevasse" mineral vein at weight 10, in every overworld biome. At
    the pack's configured yield of 4096 that is roughly 1 475 amethyst blocks,
    or 5 900 shards, or 53 000 RavenCoin out of a single vein — a third of the
    top rank, dug up by a machine. The pack's datapack drops that vein.

Two more routes were closed before this audit and belong in the same list. The
gold and diamond laser lenses are banned from ever being sold — section 5. And
Mekanism's cardboard box is blocked from picking up budding amethyst, which
otherwise let a player carry a whole geode home for the price of four sawdust.

So the real rate, and the sentence to price everything against, is:

    ONE AMETHYST SHARD = NINE RAVENCOIN

Before quoting a price, convert it. "450 coin" says nothing. "Fifty shards of
amethyst" says everything.

The supply is throttled by something already in the pack and worth knowing
about: a claimed geode only grows while its owner is online, because forceload
only runs then (decision D17). Amethyst production is proportional to time at
the keyboard, not to time on the calendar. A geode with about twenty usable
budding blocks is worth roughly 900 RavenCoin an hour, and the same player still
has to feed the recipe 600 gold and 200 diamonds an hour to turn it into money.

One measured leak, left open deliberately: Mekanism's Antiprotonic
Nucleosynthesizer turns one coal and 4 mB of antimatter into a diamond in fifty
seconds. It has no recipe for gold and none for amethyst. Diamond was never the
binding input, the machine sits behind the deepest gate in the pack, and it is
slow — so this is recorded rather than closed. If the SPS ever gets cheaper,
revisit it.


2. Where the shop sits in a season
----------------------------------

Worth saying plainly, because it looks like a flaw until you see it whole: a
player can reach Technik without buying anything here except the rank.

That cannot be fixed, and it should not be. The road to 150 000 is limited by
amethyst, and amethyst is the currency. Nothing the shop could sell makes
amethyst grow faster. The only two items that would genuinely shorten the road
are the gold and diamond lenses, and those are banned forever for exactly that
reason.

So the shape is:

    before Technik    small conveniences, nothing more
    Technik           the one real money goal
    the finale        the shop is the only thing left to do

That last line is what makes the six-week finale work. Three players hold the
top rank, the ladder is finished, the income keeps coming and there is nowhere
for it to go but here. The brown lens at 100 000 stops being an expensive toy
and becomes the finish line.


3. What the shop sells
----------------------

Laser Drill lenses. Every one of the sixteen is banned from crafting, so this
shop is their only source in the world, which is what makes this list part of
the currency balance rather than a convenience.

A lens is NOT consumed. It is a one-off payment for an endless stream of ore,
and the prices reflect that.

The colours below are the ones that produce anything in THIS pack. The full
table in Industrial Foregoing lists ores from mods that are not here.

    lens         what it yields here                          price
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------
    brown        ANCIENT DEBRIS (weight 1/46), iron,         100 000
                 aluminium, nickel                           + Technik only
    lime         emerald, uranium                              8 000
    light_gray   osmium, tin, fluorite                         8 000
    red          redstone (weight 32)                          5 000
    white        nether quartz                                 2 500
    purple       lead                                          2 500
    gray         silver, AD ASTRA OIL                          2 500
    orange       copper                                          800
    blue         lapis                                           800
    black        coal                                            400

    green        nothing — peridot is not in this pack       do not list
    magenta      nothing — arcane is not in this pack        do not list

    yellow       GOLD                                        NEVER SELL
    light_blue   DIAMOND                                     NEVER SELL

Gray is the one row Ad Astra moved. The Giselle addon adds a laser drill recipe
whose catalyst is the gray lens and whose output is ad_astra:oil, so the same
lens that was priced for silver now also taps oil — and because the pack's world
datapack puts ad_astra:oil into #c:crude_oil, that oil feeds Immersive
Petroleum's tree as well as Ad Astra's refinery. One purchase, two tech trees.
It is not a monopoly, which is what keeps the price at 2 500 rather than in the
five-figure band: oil wells generate normally and the mining dimension renews
them every cycle, so anyone who does not want to pay can go pump one. What the
lens sells is passive and endless and at home. The recipe is also placed —
depth 20 to 60, and only in ocean or desert biomes.

Brown is not really a lens, it is a netherite tap, and it is priced with the
rank rather than with the other lenses. Behind the Technik gate the whole thing
costs 250 000 — rank plus lens — and that is the intended end of the road.

The cheap end is priced for a player who has not reached Obywatel yet. Four
hundred coin for a coal lens is not meant to burn money; it is meant to get a
new player through the door so they find out the shop exists.


4. What the shop buys
---------------------

This is the dangerous half. Every buy-back entry turns an item's crafting chain
into a money printer running at the speed of that chain — and in a pack with AE2
autocrafting, anything craftable eventually becomes infinite. The prices below
are deliberately lower than the build feels like it deserves. We are not paying
for effort; we are paying little enough that the printer stays slower than the
mint.

Two parallel ladders, one on each tech tree, so a player can earn in whichever
one they have built.

    early endgame — a fission reactor, or basic AE2
    ---------------------------------------------------------------
    QIO Hyper Dense Drive     mekanism:qio_drive_hyper_dense    1 500
    MEGA 16M Item Cell                                          1 500
    MEGA 64M Item Cell                                          6 000
    QIO Time Dilating Drive   mekanism:qio_drive_time_dilating  8 000

    deep endgame — the SPS, or full AE2
    ---------------------------------------------------------------
    MEGA Bulk Item Cell       megacells:bulk_item_cell         20 000
    MEGA 256M Item Cell       megacells:item_storage_cell_256m 25 000
    MEGA 256M Fluid Cell      megacells:fluid_storage_cell_256m 25 000
    Supermassive QIO Drive    mekanism:qio_drive_supermassive  50 000

Both ladders pay MORE THAN FOUR TIMES the rung below. That is not decoration: a
tier costs three or four of the tier under it, so if the price were merely
proportional a player would be indifferent, and would then farm the cheapest
rung because it needs no deep automation. Superlinear pricing makes crafting
upward always the better move, and that is the only thing keeping the ladder
from collapsing into spam.

Measured, so the prices are not guesses. One MEGA 256M cell is 243 AE2 256k
components and 121 accumulation processors, each of those needing its own sky
steel print, plus 16 matter balls. The item and fluid versions differ only in
the housing metal — sky steel against sky bronze, which is iron against copper —
so they cost the same and are priced the same. One Supermassive QIO Drive
expands to 256 ultimate control circuits, 256 lead, 80 plutonium, 8 polonium,
16 teleportation cores, 64 ender pearls and one antimatter pellet, and the
antimatter means an SPS.

The Bulk Item Cell needs three netherite ingots, which closes a loop with the
brown lens. It also needs ae2:spatial_cell_component_2 — note that the pack's
spatial ban covers the finished cells, the IO port, the pylon and the anchor,
but NOT the components. That is what keeps MEGA Bulk cells working, and it is
deliberate.


5. Four rules that must not break
---------------------------------

NEVER SELL THE YELLOW OR LIGHT BLUE LENS, at any price, behind any rank. They
are the gold and diamond taps, which is to say they are the mint's own inputs.
Sell one and the exchange rate in section 1 stops meaning anything.

NEVER LIST THE SAME ITEM AS BOTH A PRODUCT AND A PRICE. Buy low, sell high, in
two clicks, forever. This is the only way the shop itself can loop.

NO MACHINE MAY PRODUCE AN INPUT OF THE CURRENCY. It is the rule the three
closures in section 1 have in common, and it is the one to apply to anything
added later. A geode is effort — it only grows while its owner is online. An
excavator is capital — it runs whenever it has power. The moment a machine
makes amethyst, gold or diamond at scale, the exchange rate is set by whoever
built the largest factory rather than by anybody's time, and every price in
this file is a guess again.

NEVER BUY A RAW MACHINE OUTPUT. Buy assembled items only. A polonium pellet has
no crafting step — it is simply whatever the reactor produces, and a Mekanism
fission reactor scales with how large it is built, so the rate is set by capital
rather than by effort. Any flat price on a scaling output eventually breaks:
priced for a modest reactor, a maximal one earns ten times as much. Worse,
polonium is an ingredient in the drives above, so if raw pellets ever pay better
per pellet than the assembled drive, nobody assembles anything again. The safe
version of that idea is already in section 4: buy the drives that eat the
pellets.


6. The money supply
-------------------

The catalogue costs one fully equipped player 288 000 once — 150 000 for
Technik, 100 000 for brown, 38 000 for the rest of the lenses. Ten of them is
2.9 million of lifetime sink, and spread over a season of roughly 3 000
player-hours that needs about 960 RavenCoin an hour of faucet. A committed
player earns around 800. The two numbers meeting is the whole calibration: over
one season, a dedicated player can buy the catalogue almost exactly once.

A THIRD FAUCET, ADDED AFTER THIS CALIBRATION AND KEPT SMALL. Fifteen milestones
— world/datapacks/ravenforge-milestones/, priced in
kubejs/server_scripts/milestones.js — pay 23 000 in total to a player who
finishes every one of them, once each. That is about 2 550 shards, or
twenty-six hours of a good geode: eight per cent of the catalogue above, and
inside the median band in the table below. It cannot become the printer in the
second alarm, because nothing in it repeats — an advancement is earned once and
the game itself remembers who has earned it.

What it buys is direction rather than income. The buy-back in section 4 starts
at early endgame and pays nothing before it, and it pays nothing at all for the
one large thing in this pack with no economic pull of its own: the five planets.
Exactly half the milestone money sits there, deliberately, so RavenCoin flows
TOWARDS space rather than being charged for reaching it — which is the other
half of the decision that rocket fuel has no price.

⚠ It is also the only faucet that consumes no amethyst, so it dilutes the anchor
in section 1 by exactly what it pays. 23 000 against a lifetime faucet near 2.9
million is a rounding error, and it is written down rather than hidden: each
payout goes on the statement as ADJUST with `milestone:<key>` in the note, so
/rc history tells it apart from a shop sale even though the ledger has no kind
of its own for a reward yet.

    total supply, target        300 000 - 600 000
    median active player         15 000 -  40 000
    the richest                  up to   400 000

Three alarms:

  * under 100 000 total — deflation. Nobody can afford anything, the shop is
    scenery and players go back to barter. Raise the buy-back.
  * over 1 500 000 total — somebody found a printer. Work out which buy-back
    entry is being farmed.
  * ONE PLAYER HOLDING OVER HALF THE SUPPLY — the buy-back is automated. This
    is the single number worth watching, and the only one that means the design
    has failed rather than drifted.

Two commands measure it. Both are operator-only, and both are slow enough to be
weekly rather than routine — the census decompresses one player file per offline
account.

    /rc eco total          the whole supply, and who holds most of it
    /rc eco worth <player> one player: banked and carried, online or off

/rc eco total prints the banked half, the carried half, the sum, and the largest
holder's share — which is the third alarm above, computed rather than eyeballed,
and called out in the open when it passes fifty per cent.

Read the total as a FLOOR, not as the supply. It counts the ledger, every
online player's inventory and ender chest, and every offline player's saved
inventory and ender chest. It does not count a chest, a drawer, an ME network, a
shulker box or a dropped stack, and it cannot without walking every region file
on disk. Section 7 is why that gap is wider here than it would be elsewhere.

/baltop stays useful and stays wrong on its own: it ranks banked balances only,
so a player who never walks to the bank does not appear on it at all. Rank the
season by /rc eco worth, not by /baltop.

7. The bank is at spawn
-----------------------

The ATM is craftable in the mod and banned in this pack. That is deliberate, and
it is the pack's decision rather than the mod's: RavenCoin is meant to work in
somebody else's world too, where one bank at spawn is nobody's idea of a
feature.

Give the block to yourself and place it:

    /give <player> ravencoin:atm

WHAT THE WALK IS ACTUALLY FOR. Not paying: a shop priced in RavenCoin can be
paid straight out of the account, and the buy screen has a switch for it. It has
to be able to, because the catalogue in section 3 does not fit in a player's
inventory — a 35 000 entry is 3 889 coin blocks and 36 slots hold 2 304. The
whole price list was unpayable in coins before that switch existed.

What still needs the bank is the other direction. Coin comes out of the ground
and out of the mint as a physical thing, and the only way it becomes account
money is a deposit. So:

    minting, mob drops, chests           -> physical coin
    the ATM, at spawn                    -> the only way in
    ranks, shops, transfers              -> account

which means the walk is the price of turning what you earned into what you can
spend at range. A player who never visits the bank can still trade, hand to
hand, in coin. They just cannot buy a rank, and they cannot pay a shop that is
nowhere near them.

Three consequences to expect rather than discover:

  * More of the money sits in chests than it otherwise would, because banking
    costs a journey. That is exactly the money /rc eco total cannot see, which
    is why the total is a floor and why the trend matters more than the value.
  * Killing a player near spawn is worth more than killing one anywhere else.
    They are carrying coins precisely because they came to bank them. Claim the
    spawn area and keep PvP off inside it.
  * A player shop's takings go to the OWNER'S ACCOUNT, not into its chest, when
    the price is RavenCoin. A shop therefore keeps selling while its owner is
    offline and can never jam with a full till — and the owner never has to walk
    to their own shop to empty it. Any other price is still a physical thing in
    a physical container, and still fills up.


8. The bank terminal
--------------------

The ATM is a menu, not a form. Five pages:

    Wplata i wyplata    coins in and out of your pockets
    Przelew             pay another player by name
    Historia            the last 20 movements on your account
    Rangi               the ladder, with a Buy button on the rung you can afford
    Ranking             the eight richest accounts

The statement is the one worth knowing about. It records deposits, withdrawals,
transfers both ways, shop purchases, sales by your own shops, ranks, and
operator corrections — with how long ago each was. It exists because on this
server money moves while you are logged out: your shop sells something, someone
pays you, an operator fixes a mistake. Without it, "I had more yesterday" has no
answer.

Twenty lines are kept per player, which is two pages on the screen. They live in
the same saved file as the balances, so a world backup carries them and a world
wipe ends them with the season.


9. Market stalls
----------------

A server shop can be put on the market and rented by a player. Config, under
[shops]:

    rentEnabled     true
    rentPrice       100     RavenCoin per period, from the renter's account
    rentDays        7       what one payment buys
    rentGraceDays   7       how long a closed stall waits before it lapses

HOW TO BUILD ONE. Place a server shop, put a barrel against it, open the
settings as an operator and press "Wynajem: tak". Claim the ground: the barrel
must NOT be openable by players, and that is the point — the stall's own
Zaopatrz button is the only way its renter reaches the goods, and nobody else
has one.

A stall with no container refuses to be rented at all rather than after the
money has changed hands.

WHAT THE RENTER GETS. The same settings screen as their own shop: they choose
the goods, the price, the amounts, the sign, and any rank gate. Takings go to
their account like any other coin-priced shop, so the stall trades while they
are offline.

WHAT HAPPENS WHEN THE RENT STOPS. Charged from the account, checked every 30
seconds against a clock measured in days:

    paid          sells normally
    unpaid        SHUT, stock untouched, retried every check — paying up
                  reopens it exactly as it was
    +7 days       the rental lapses; owner, goods and price are cleared, and
                  the BARREL IS LEFT ALONE

That last line is deliberate. Scattering somebody's stock over a server claim
while they are asleep is how a market becomes a way to lose a double chest. An
operator empties the barrel by hand, which costs a minute and cannot go wrong.

WHY THIS IS GOOD FOR THE ECONOMY. Rent is a sink and a recurring one, which the
price list does not otherwise have — every other sink in this pack is a one-off
purchase. Ten stalls at 100 a week is 1 000 RavenCoin a week leaving the world
for as long as the season runs, and it is paid by exactly the players who are
earning most.

Set the price against section 6, not against what feels fair. At 100 a week it
is a rounding error next to a 5 000 lens and will not restrain anybody; that is
the right level for a first season, where the point is to see whether stalls get
used at all. Raise it once they do.

