World setup
===========

Three jobs, and the order matters: set spawn, set the border, then pregenerate.
Spawn is what /rtp measures its distances from and what the border is normally
centred on; Chunky can read the border and size its own job from it. Done out of
order you pregenerate ground that nothing points at, and pregeneration is the
expensive step — you do not want to run it twice.

None of this ships in the pack. The border and the spawn point live in
world/level.dat, which the server writes, so server-overrides/ cannot deliver
them. They are commands you run once on the live world, and they survive
restarts.


1. Spawn
--------

Run both of these, standing where spawn should be:

    /setworldspawn
    /setspawn

They are not the same thing. The first sets the level spawn in level.dat — the
point a player without a bed respawns at, and the point kubejs/server_scripts/
rtp.js centres its ring on. The second is Henny Essentials' own spawn, the one
/spawn sends people to. Setting only the second leaves /rtp measuring from
wherever the world was first created.

Keep spawn at or near 0, 0. If you want it somewhere else, move the border
centre with it — section 2 — because /rtp draws a ring around spawn and expects
that ring to be inside the border.


2. The border
-------------

    /worldborder set 10000

That is the DIAMETER, not the radius. 10000 gives ±5000 from the centre, which
is what the rest of this file assumes.

If spawn is not at 0, 0:

    /worldborder center <x> <z>

Worth setting once, so players see the wall coming instead of walking into it:

    /worldborder warning distance 50

Five things about the border that are not obvious and were checked in the
game's own bytecode rather than assumed:

  * THERE IS ONE BORDER FOR THE WHOLE SERVER. MinecraftServer.createLevels walks
    every LevelStem in the dimension registry and, for each one that is not the
    overworld, hangs a DelegateBorderChangeListener off the overworld's border.
    Every dimension therefore inherits whatever you set here: the nether,
    ravenforge:mining, and all eleven Ad Astra dimensions — the five planets and
    the six orbits. Ad Astra's dimension types all carry coordinate_scale 1.0,
    so on the moon and on Mars the ±5000 means ±5000, with none of the nether's
    arithmetic below.

  * IT IS NOT SCALED FOR THE NETHER. The listener copies the size verbatim, with
    no division by coordinate_scale. A border of 10000 is ±5000 in the nether
    too — and a nether block is eight overworld blocks wide, so that is ±40000
    of overworld ground. You cannot fix this from vanilla: /worldborder always
    targets the overworld's border, hardcoded, so
    `execute in minecraft:the_nether run worldborder set …` does nothing
    different. Section 3 works around it where it matters.

  * NOBODY ESCAPES THROUGH A PORTAL ANYWAY. A nether portal multiplies the
    player's coordinates by the scale and then clamps the result to the
    destination's border. Someone standing at nether 5000 and lighting a portal
    comes out at the edge of the overworld border, not at 40000. So the nether's
    oversized border is a pregeneration question, not a containment hole.

  * IT IS A WALL OF INFINITE HEIGHT, SO FLIGHT DOES NOT CLEAR IT. The border is
    handed to the physics as a collision shape, and WorldBorder.getCollisionShape
    builds it from NEGATIVE_INFINITY to POSITIVE_INFINITY in y. The server then
    replays every movement packet through Entity.move and rewinds the player when
    the result drifts more than a quarter of a block from what the client claimed.
    Nothing about flying changes that path: a Mekanism jetpack, a Meka-Suit and
    Ad Astra's Jet Suit all move the player by adding to its delta movement, which
    is ordinary physics, so all three hit the wall exactly as a walking player
    does. Elytra likewise.

  * WHAT DOES GET PAST IT IS GAME MODE AND TELEPORTS. The rewind is skipped for
    creative and spectator, which is operators only. Teleports are not checked at
    all — /tp, and an ender pearl, whose thrown entity never goes through
    Entity.move and whose landing calls no border check. A player who pearls out
    is not contained, but they are outside the border, where vanilla applies
    damage that grows with the distance and never stops. Treat it as a nuisance,
    not a hole: nothing out there is worth the trip, and /rtp and the warps all
    land inside.


3. Pregeneration
----------------

Chunky 1.4.23, server side. Run it with nobody online: it saturates disk and CPU
and the server will feel terrible while it works.

Overworld — Chunky can take the border's centre and radius directly:

    chunky world minecraft:overworld
    chunky worldborder
    chunky shape circle
    chunky start

Circle rather than Chunky's default square. It is 21% less work for the same
reach, and it matches /rtp, which picks its landings on a disc.

The mining dimension. Its border is the same ±5000, but /rtp only reaches 3000
there and the rest is walked to, so 3500 is enough — the outer ring generates on
demand, and a hitch in a resource dimension costs less than a hitch at spawn.
Raise it to 5000 if the disk is free.

    chunky world ravenforge:mining
    chunky center 0 0
    chunky radius 3500
    chunky shape circle
    chunky start

The nether, and this is the one you must NOT run `chunky worldborder` on. It
would hand Chunky the border's 5000, which is correct for the border and eight
times more than any player can reach: the furthest portal anybody can build
inside the overworld border lands at nether 625.

    chunky world minecraft:the_nether
    chunky center 0 0
    chunky radius 1000
    chunky shape circle
    chunky start

While it runs:

    chunky progress          how far along
    chunky pause             stop and save progress
    chunky continue          resume, including after a restart
    chunky cancel            stop and discard, asks to confirm
    chunky quiet 30          console update every 30 s instead of every 1 s

Chunky estimates the disk space the task needs before it starts and refuses if
the free space looks short, asking you to confirm to override. That estimate is
a better number than anything in section 4 — it knows this pack's terrain.

Leave the pattern alone. The default is `region`, which walks region file by
region file and is the kindest to the disk.


4. What it costs
----------------

    dimension              radius   chunks (circle)
    -------------------------------------------------
    minecraft:overworld      5000           306 796
    ravenforge:mining        3500           150 318
    minecraft:the_nether     1000            12 272

Measured on a near-vanilla 1.21 world, counting region + entities + poi: 4.2 KiB
per chunk. That is a FLOOR, not this pack's number — ninety mods add ores and
structures. Plan for 8-12 KiB per chunk, so roughly 2.5-5 GB for all three, and
trust Chunky's own estimate over this paragraph.

Time is the part not worth guessing. Run the overworld job, note how long the
first 1% takes, and multiply.


5. Growing the world later
--------------------------

The border is a valve, not a ceiling. To open it up:

    /worldborder add 2000 600

That widens it by 2000 blocks over ten minutes, so nobody is standing outside a
wall that suddenly moved. Then rerun the Chunky commands from section 3 with the
larger radius — the already-generated part goes past quickly, because there is
nothing there to generate.

Shrinking is the dangerous direction. `chunky trim` deletes every chunk outside
the current selection, permanently, and it says so and demands confirmation.
Take a backup first, and expect to restart the server fully afterwards.


6. What /rtp depends on
-----------------------

The numbers in kubejs/server_scripts/rtp.js are written against the setup above:

    dimension              /rtp ring    needs a border of at least
    ---------------------------------------------------------------
    minecraft:overworld     500-4000                        ±5000
    ravenforge:mining       200-3000                        ±4000
    minecraft:the_nether    100- 800                        ±1000

Two rules keep them honest:

  * The border radius must be comfortably larger than the largest ring — a
    thousand blocks of margin is what the table assumes. Land a player exactly
    on the border and they are boxed in the moment they arrive.
  * Spawn must sit at or near the border's centre, because the ring is drawn
    around spawn and the border is drawn around its own centre. Move one without
    the other and part of the ring falls outside.

Break either and /rtp does not fail quietly. Every candidate lands out of
bounds, the player is told the command is misconfigured rather than told to try
again, and the console gets the numbers:

    [ravenforge] rtp: every candidate in minecraft:the_nether fell outside the
    world border. Ring is 100-800 blocks around 375, 375; widen the border or
    move spawn back to its centre.

Changing a radius means editing RTP_WORLDS in that file. The nether row also
carries originScale 0.125, which converts the overworld spawn into nether
coordinates — getSharedSpawnPos() answers with the overworld's spawn in every
dimension, so without it a spawn moved away from 0, 0 would put the nether ring
eight times too far out.
