Shops
=====

Universal Shops. A block placed next to a chest, with a settings screen of its
own. It runs server-side, so a player on a vanilla client sees it exactly like
somebody with the full pack.


1. The player shop
------------------

Craft: 4 planks of any kind + 1 wool + 1 iron ingot.

You place it next to a container — a chest, a barrel, whatever the storage is to
be. The settings screen opens by itself on placement. In it you choose:

  * what the shop sells (clicking with an item in hand copies it into the
    settings),
  * what for (the price — also an item),
  * whether it accepts hoppers,
  * whether a price hologram floats above the block.

A customer buys by opening the shop and taking the goods; shift+click drops
straight into the inventory. Payment lands in the same chest the goods come
from.

There is no currency on this server. There is none because on Fabric 26.2 no mod
provides the Common Economy API — Universal Shops has a ready "virtual balance"
mode, but there is nothing to fill it with. You trade item for item and that
suits players fine; usually one commodity gets settled on as an agreed currency,
on a classic server a diamond or an emerald.

Only the owner of the block opens the shop's settings. Anybody else sees the
purchase screen only, including when the shop stands outside a claim.

A piece of advice worth repeating to players: the shop sells from the chest you
point it at. Do not hook it up to a chest you do not want emptied.


2. The admin shop
-----------------

    /universal_shops get true      gives an admin shop block
    /universal_shops get false     gives an ordinary shop block

Permission: universal_shops.admin (Administrator has it). An ordinary player has
no access to that command at all — they craft the block and that is that.

The admin shop differs in two ways, both of them significant:

  * it has infinite stock. It needs no chest and never sells out. Payment goes
    nowhere either — it leaves circulation.
  * it cannot be broken. The block has infinite hardness and does not drop. You
    remove it in creative.

Waystones are worth keeping exactly here. They cannot be made at a table, so the
admin shop is — alongside villages and the Obywatel rank reward — the third way
for a player to have a stone of their own at all. The price decides whether the
travel network grows quickly or slowly.

That means the admin shop is both the tap and the drain of the economy at once.
The price you set in it becomes the players' ceiling and floor — nobody will
sell higher than your tap and nobody will buy lower than your drain. Set them
deliberately, ideally rarely, and on things whose supply you want to stabilise.


3. What the shop cannot do
--------------------------

Purchases cannot be limited by rank. Universal Shops checks permissions only
when a shop is being created and configured — whoever reaches the block, buys,
whoever they are. The mod's code simply contains no question of "may this player
trade here".

The only rank gate that works automatically in this pack is the rank reward in
Playtime Rewards: the `rewards` field on a rung, handed out once, with duplicate
control. That is how a waystone reaches a player at Obywatel, and the same way
you can let through anything else "from rank X upwards".

The rest runs through a person: staff keeps goods for higher ranks outside the
shop and hands them over on the spot (`/sk give <name> <kit>`), after checking
the rank in `/lp user <name> info`. Less elegant, but predictable — and
promotion to Mistrz works the same way.


4. Shops and claims
-------------------

Universal Shops checks chest access through the Common Protection API, which
OPAC does not implement. In practice it does not hurt: the shop reads the chest
its block's owner points it at, and OPAC will not let a block be placed on
somebody else's claim anyway. Do not add a second protection mod to plug this
hole — two claim systems on one server are guaranteed trouble, bigger than the
hole itself.

So that buying from a shop standing on somebody's claim is possible, both shop
blocks are added to the protection exceptions in
world/serverconfig/openpartiesandclaims-server.toml. Details in docs/claims.txt,
section 3.


5. Ranks for materials
----------------------

Mistrz is the only rank you buy. The player pays staff the agreed price in the
admin shop, and staff runs:

    lp user <name> promote rangi

There is no automation for this and there will not be in this version of the
pack. On Fabric 26.2 no mod exists that would take items and grant a group in
LuckPerms: KubeJS has no build, neither does Command Aliases, and a plain
datapack cannot put a player's name into an `lp` command. If KubeJS ever turns
up, this is the first thing to rework.

We do not sell ranks for real money and we will not. Mojang's commercial
guidelines forbid selling gameplay advantage, and a claim limit and chunk
loading are exactly gameplay advantage.
